README.md, before:

[![appveyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/DTOcean/aneris?branch=master&svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/DTOcean/aneris)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/DTOcean/aneris/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/DTOcean/aneris)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/bb34506cc82f4df883178a6e64619eaf)](https://www.codacy.com/project/H0R5E/aneris/dashboard?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=DTOcean/aneris&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade_Dashboard&amp;branchId=8410911)
[![release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/DTOcean/aneris.svg)](https://github.com/DTOcean/aneris/releases/latest)

# aneris

Aneris provides data management, coupling between arbitrary sources (such as
files, databases, python packages, etc.) and execution ordering.

It is the framework on which [dtocean-core](
https://github.com/DTOcean/dtocean-core) is built.

* For python 2.7 only.

## Installation

Installation and development of aneris uses the [Anaconda Distribution](
https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/) (Python 2.7)

### Conda Package

To install:

```
$ conda install -c dataonlygreater aneris
```

### Source Code

Conda can be used to install dependencies into a dedicated environment from
the source code root directory:

```
conda env create -f environment.yml
```

Activate the conda environment:

```
$ conda activate _aneris
```

Install the source code of [polite](https://github.com/DTOcean/polite) using the
`requirements-conda-dev.tex` file and pip:

```
$ cd \\path\\to\\polite
$ conda install --file requirements-conda-dev.txt
$ pip install -e .
```

Finally, install aneris using pip:

```
$ cd \\path\\to\\aneris
$ pip install -e .
```

To deactivate the conda environment:

```
$ conda deactivate
```

For installation into another environment (such as when developing
multiple DTOcean packages), use the `requirements-conda-dev.tex` file for
dependencies:

```
$ conda install --file requirements-conda-dev.txt
$ pip install -e .
```

### Tests

A test suite is provided with the source code that uses [pytest](
https://docs.pytest.org).

If not already active, activate the conda environment set up in the [Source 
Code](#source-code) section:

```
$ conda activate _aneris
```

Install pytest to the environment (one time only):

```
$ conda install -y pytest
```

Run the tests:

``` 
$ py.test tests
```

### Uninstall

To uninstall the conda package:

```
$ conda remove aneris
```

To uninstall the source code and its conda environment:

```
$ conda remove --name _aneris --all
```

## Usage

An example of using aneris to read data from a DataWell SPT file interface,
store the data using Simulation and DataPool objects, and then retrieve the
data using its specified data structure.

All the setup for this example is in the aneris.test module of the source code.
The example SPT file can be found in the `aneris\\tests\\data` directory.

First, look for interfaces that are subclasses of FileInterface in the
aneris.test.interfaces module:

```python
>>> from aneris.control.sockets import NamedSocket
>>> import aneris.test.interfaces as interfaces

>>> interfacer = NamedSocket("FileInterface")
>>> interfacer.discover_interfaces(interfaces)
>>> interfacer.get_interface_names()
{'Datawell SPT File': 'SPTInterface'}
```

Load the SPTInterface interface and see what file types it can load:

```python
>>> file_interface = interfacer.get_interface_object('SPTInterface')
>>> file_interface.get_valid_extensions()
['.spt']
```

See which variables the interface can provide:

```python
>>> output_variables = file_interface.get_outputs()
>>> output_variables
['site:wave:dir',
 'site:wave:spread',
 'site:wave:skewness',
 'site:wave:kurtosis',
 'site:wave:freqs',
 'site:wave:PSD1D',
 'site:wave:Hm0',
 'site:wave:Tz']
```

Get the data from the test SPT file:

```python
>>> file_interface.set_file_path(test_spectrum_30min.spt)
>>> file_interface.connect()
```

Create a data catalogue and read the defined structures and meta data for each
variable:

```python
>>> from aneris.control.data import DataValidation
>>> from aneris.entity.data import DataCatalog

>>> catalog = DataCatalog()
>>> validation = DataValidation(meta_cls=data.MyMetaData)
>>> validation.update_data_catalog_from_definitions(catalog,
                                                    data)
```

Check which variables in the interface are defined in the data catalogue:

```python
>>> valid_variables = validation.get_valid_variables(catalog, output_variables)
>>> valid_variables
['site:wave:dir', 'site:wave:PSD1D', 'site:wave:freqs']
```

Collect the raw data for the valid variables:

```python
>>> raw_data = []

>>> for variable in valid_variables:
>>>     raw_data.append(file_interface.get_data(variable))
```

Create DataPool, Simulation and Loader objects and store the collected data:

```python
>>> from aneris.control.data import DataStorage
>>> from aneris.control.simulation import Loader
>>> from aneris.entity import Simulation
>>> from aneris.entity.data import DataPool

>>> pool = DataPool()
>>> simulation = Simulation("Hello World!")
>>> data_store = DataStorage(data)
>>> loader = Loader(data_store)

>>> loader.add_datastate(pool,
>>>                      simulation,
>>>                      None,
>>>                      catalog,
>>>                      valid_variables,
>>>                      raw_data)
```

Retrieved variables are now pandas Series objects, as defined in the data
catalogue:

```python
>>> freqs = loader.get_data_value(pool,
>>>                               simulation,
>>>                               'site:wave:freqs')
>>> type(freqs)
pandas.core.series.Series
```

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to
discuss what you would like to change.

See [this blog post](
https://www.dataonlygreater.com/latest/professional/2017/03/09/dtocean-development-change-management/)
for information regarding development of the DTOcean ecosystem.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## Credits

This package was initially created as part of the [EU DTOcean project](
https://www.dtoceanplus.eu/About-DTOceanPlus/History) by Mathew Topper at
[TECNALIA](https://www.tecnalia.com).

It is now maintained by Mathew Topper at [Data Only Greater](
https://www.dataonlygreater.com/).

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

Commit message:

Remove environment.yml from build process and add custom .condarc

README.md, after:

[![appveyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/DTOcean/aneris?branch=master&svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/DTOcean/aneris)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/DTOcean/aneris/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/DTOcean/aneris)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/bb34506cc82f4df883178a6e64619eaf)](https://www.codacy.com/project/H0R5E/aneris/dashboard?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=DTOcean/aneris&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade_Dashboard&amp;branchId=8410911)
[![release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/DTOcean/aneris.svg)](https://github.com/DTOcean/aneris/releases/latest)

# aneris

Aneris provides data management, coupling between arbitrary sources (such as
files, databases, python packages, etc.) and execution ordering.

It is the framework on which [dtocean-core](
https://github.com/DTOcean/dtocean-core) is built.

* For python 2.7 only.

## Installation

Installation and development of aneris uses the [Anaconda Distribution](
https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/) (Python 2.7)

### Conda Package

To install:

```
$ conda install -c dataonlygreater aneris
```

### Source Code

Conda can be used to install dependencies into a dedicated environment from
the source code root directory:

```
conda create -n _aneris python=2.7 pip
```

Activate the environment, then copy the `.condrc` file to store installation  
channels:

```
$ conda activate _aneris
$ copy .condarc %CONDA_PREFIX%
```

Install [polite](https://github.com/DTOcean/polite) into the environment. For 
example, if installing them from source:

```
$ cd \\path\\to\\polite
$ conda install --file requirements-conda-dev.txt
$ pip install -e .
```

Finally, install aneris using pip:

```
$ cd \\path\\to\\aneris
$ conda install --file requirements-conda-dev.txt
$ pip install -e .
```

To deactivate the conda environment:

```
$ conda deactivate
```

For installation into another environment (such as when developing
multiple DTOcean packages), use the `requirements-conda-dev.tex` file for
dependencies:

```
$ conda install --file requirements-conda-dev.txt
$ pip install -e .
```

### Tests

A test suite is provided with the source code that uses [pytest](
https://docs.pytest.org).

If not already active, activate the conda environment set up in the [Source 
Code](#source-code) section:

```
$ conda activate _aneris
```

Install pytest to the environment (one time only):

```
$ conda install -y pytest
```

Run the tests:

``` 
$ py.test tests
```

### Uninstall

To uninstall the conda package:

```
$ conda remove aneris
```

To uninstall the source code and its conda environment:

```
$ conda remove --name _aneris --all
```

## Usage

An example of using aneris to read data from a DataWell SPT file interface,
store the data using Simulation and DataPool objects, and then retrieve the
data using its specified data structure.

All the setup for this example is in the aneris.test module of the source code.
The example SPT file can be found in the `aneris\\tests\\data` directory.

First, look for interfaces that are subclasses of FileInterface in the
aneris.test.interfaces module:

```python
>>> from aneris.control.sockets import NamedSocket
>>> import aneris.test.interfaces as interfaces

>>> interfacer = NamedSocket("FileInterface")
>>> interfacer.discover_interfaces(interfaces)
>>> interfacer.get_interface_names()
{'Datawell SPT File': 'SPTInterface'}
```

Load the SPTInterface interface and see what file types it can load:

```python
>>> file_interface = interfacer.get_interface_object('SPTInterface')
>>> file_interface.get_valid_extensions()
['.spt']
```

See which variables the interface can provide:

```python
>>> output_variables = file_interface.get_outputs()
>>> output_variables
['site:wave:dir',
 'site:wave:spread',
 'site:wave:skewness',
 'site:wave:kurtosis',
 'site:wave:freqs',
 'site:wave:PSD1D',
 'site:wave:Hm0',
 'site:wave:Tz']
```

Get the data from the test SPT file:

```python
>>> file_interface.set_file_path(test_spectrum_30min.spt)
>>> file_interface.connect()
```

Create a data catalogue and read the defined structures and meta data for each
variable:

```python
>>> from aneris.control.data import DataValidation
>>> from aneris.entity.data import DataCatalog

>>> catalog = DataCatalog()
>>> validation = DataValidation(meta_cls=data.MyMetaData)
>>> validation.update_data_catalog_from_definitions(catalog,
                                                    data)
```

Check which variables in the interface are defined in the data catalogue:

```python
>>> valid_variables = validation.get_valid_variables(catalog, output_variables)
>>> valid_variables
['site:wave:dir', 'site:wave:PSD1D', 'site:wave:freqs']
```

Collect the raw data for the valid variables:

```python
>>> raw_data = []

>>> for variable in valid_variables:
>>>     raw_data.append(file_interface.get_data(variable))
```

Create DataPool, Simulation and Loader objects and store the collected data:

```python
>>> from aneris.control.data import DataStorage
>>> from aneris.control.simulation import Loader
>>> from aneris.entity import Simulation
>>> from aneris.entity.data import DataPool

>>> pool = DataPool()
>>> simulation = Simulation("Hello World!")
>>> data_store = DataStorage(data)
>>> loader = Loader(data_store)

>>> loader.add_datastate(pool,
>>>                      simulation,
>>>                      None,
>>>                      catalog,
>>>                      valid_variables,
>>>                      raw_data)
```

Retrieved variables are now pandas Series objects, as defined in the data
catalogue:

```python
>>> freqs = loader.get_data_value(pool,
>>>                               simulation,
>>>                               'site:wave:freqs')
>>> type(freqs)
pandas.core.series.Series
```

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to
discuss what you would like to change.

See [this blog post](
https://www.dataonlygreater.com/latest/professional/2017/03/09/dtocean-development-change-management/)
for information regarding development of the DTOcean ecosystem.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.

## Credits

This package was initially created as part of the [EU DTOcean project](
https://www.dtoceanplus.eu/About-DTOceanPlus/History) by Mathew Topper at
[TECNALIA](https://www.tecnalia.com).

It is now maintained by Mathew Topper at [Data Only Greater](
https://www.dataonlygreater.com/).

## License

[MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)
